first draft of public dev standards (#6)
onflow/cadence-style-guide: project_development_tips.md

# Smart Contract Project Development Standards

## Context

Smart Contracts are the bedrock piece of security for many important parts of the Flow blockchain, as well as for any project that is deployed to a blockchain.

They are also the most visible technical parts of any project, since users will be querying them for data, building other smart contracts that interact with them, and using them as learning materials and templates for future projects. Furthermore, when deployed they are publicly available code on the blockchain and often also in public Github repos.

> Therefore, the process around designing, building, testing, documenting, and managing these projects needs to reflect the critical importance they hold in the ecosystem. Each project has a responsibility to set good examples for how to manage smart contract projects.

Reviewer: Perhaps we should word this somewhat more along the lines of imparting the body of accumulated knowledge at Dapper around best practices for SC Eng. We should promote how developers adopting these practices will benefit from reduced confusion, less effort, more certainties around preventing defect escapes etc. 

"Each project has a responsibility to set good examples for how to manage smart contract projects" sounds a bit internal and more 'do this' in tone. We should break down the why for this; namely that teams who adopt these standards will be better able to support the adoption and forking of their work in the community since as pioneers in the Cadence ecosystem projects will continue to be widely copied.

Some of these suggestions might seem somewhat unnecessary, but it is important to model what a project can do to manage its smart contracts the best so that hopefully all of the projects follow suit. It will also make all the Flow smart contracts that much safer and easier to use.

This also assumes standard software design best practices also apply. Indeed, many of these suggestions are more general software design best practices, but there may be others that are assumed but not included here.

### Implementing These Practices

> This document serves as mostly an outline of best practices the projects should follow. Engineering leadership needs to figure out concrete steps for actually implementing them at their respective companies including detailed documents, education sessions, and workshops with all managers and Cadence developers.

Reviewer: "Engineering leadership needs to figure out concrete steps for actually implementing them at their respective companies including detailed documents, education sessions, and workshops with all managers and Cadence developers" seems purely internal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document serves as mostly an outline of best practices the projects should follow. As with all best practices teams will choose which applies to them, however, we recommend that teams explicitly define a minimum acceptable set of standards for themselves along with the mechanisms to ensure they are being observed.
```

Author: Good suggestion!

        - They should regularly re-evaluate the code of the project to see if it needs to be updated to conform to standards and new versions of Cadence.
        - The best projects should be active in the development of the protocol and language.
    - The owner should also understand how to sign transactions with the CLI to upgrade the smart contract, run admin transactions, deploy new contracts, etc. 
- The owner should identify a secondary owner who doesn’t hold any direct responsibility, but still has a clear understanding of the code and requirements so they can give good feedback, perform effective reviews, and make changes where needed. In case the owner is not available or leaves the project, this person can also take over easily so there is never a time when there is nobody who understands the smart contracts well.
- If there isn’t already an open source repo, the owner should create a public GitHub repo from [the open source template](https://github.com/onflow/open-source-template) and make sure all of this is set up with some initial documentation for what the repo is for before any code is written.

> - The owner should create a design document that lays out the intended high level design and architecture of the smart contract and some basic user stories, as well as any questions that still need to be answered about it.

Reviewer: I think this whole section is highly dependent on a team's individual workflows and internal processes and in this case it's somewhat surfacing ours. A number of teams likely don't even have a design process. I would suggest this remains internal until we have something more nuanced that isn't as firm in prescribing that how. We need to come back to why and what the benefits are

Reviewer 2: I do agree with Jerome. Either we can re-write this and pose it like what we think a smart contract team should do from the beginning of the lifecycle, i.e designing and requirement gathering to produce effective smart contracts and team management. However, every external and internal team has its way of managing teams.

Author: This is meant as just suggestions for teams who need guidance on how they should manage their projects, not as requirements or anything. I thought that was fairly clear in the introduction, but I guess not. I updated it to hopefully make it more clear

>     - Diagrams should be made where applicable describing state machines, user flows, etc

Reviewer 3: Perhaps this could be shown as an example: https://lucid.app/lucidchart/a0015c93-183d-4ab5-8a28-8909cc34b25d/edit?viewport_loc=-565%2C-377%2C3743%2C1941%2Cm-5o7ONTd-nK&invitationId=inv_f6e78c34-46da-41b4-a229-95eae82e8e9f#

Author: We need that diagram to be put in a public place first before we can share it somewhere

Reviewer: You mean like export the JPG yes? :)

Author: yeah, but that JPG needs to be put somewhere in the storefront docs so I can link to it. ;)

Reviewer 2: it is here https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/14581509/191960793-ff153e5d-2934-410c-b724-5c5dffd2c20f.png

    - This document should be shared in an issue in the open source repo where the contracts or features are being developed.

> - Keys for the contract and/or admin accounts should be stored in a secure key store such as google KMS or something similar, and the owner should have access to these along with the secondary owner and some other engineering manager. Keys should never be in any file in the public repo.

Reviewer 2: I think we can re-write something like - We don't recommend putting admin or deployer keys in flow.json as plain text in the remote repositories instead teams can choose any key management system at their convenience " Something like that

- Project owners need to always keep [composability and extensibility](https://www.notion.so/Smart-Contract-Composability-be544f21a2e84596affad73952b21d56) in mind while designing, developing, and documenting their projects.

> - Cadence best practices need to be kept in mind:

Reviewer: Seems very abrupt and could do with more context

Author: We're going to link to a composability blog post later, so that will provide more context. I've added a placeholder for now.

> - Cadence best practices need to be kept in mind:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you didn't already know we previously provided the following guidance around language conventions, practices and patterns. This document adds to those by focusing on best practices and guidance pertaining to the SDLC overall."
```

    - Return value descriptions
- Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) to be recognised by the [Cadence Documentation Generator](https://github.com/onflow/cadence-tools/tree/master/docgen)
    - regular comments within functions should only use two slashes (`//`)
- When looking for reviews, these requirements need to be followed (contracts and features that don’t have these are not ready for review and any reviewers should ask for them before doing the review):
    - Contract needs to be commented as described above
    - Include a high-level description of the contract or change in comments at the top of the file or function
    - Make a PR and make sure the PR description includes a summary of the contract, changes, and anything important to be aware of.

### **Testing**

- Tests should be **mandatory**, not optional, even if the contract is copied from somewhere else.
- There should be thorough emulator unit tests in the public repo.
- Every time there is a new Cadence version or emulator version, the dependencies of the repo should be updated to make sure the tests are all still passing.

> - Tests should avoid being monolithic; Individual test cases should be set up for each part of the contract to test them in isolation.

Reviewer 2: We can also tell that divide the tests into unit and integration tests to do more effective testing and higher coverage.

    - There are some exceptions, like contracts that have to run through a state machine to test different cases.
- Positive and negative cases need to be tested.

### **Documentation**

- Detailed README.md

>     - Explanation of the project itself with links to the app

Reviewer 2: I think the first two things are for readme - pre-requisite and setup instructions if there are any. Like setup flow.json and generate keys to deploy on local and whatnot.

Therefore, there should be clear tutorials for how to use and interact with the smart contracts so external developers can get up to speed as quickly as possible.

These can potentially be included in the README.md, but depending on the importance of the project, they could be their own posts or web pages.

Examples for tutorials:
- How to deploy and set up the contracts on the emulator and run automated tests.
- How to run common transactions.
- How to run scripts to access contract state on various networks.
- How to mint on testnet if applicable.

## **Deployment and Upgrade Process**

Smart contract upgrades are a big deal and need to be treated as such. It is important to have many eyes on the upgrades and more communication with the project team and community.

### Expectations for deployments to testnet or mainnet

- Communicate to all stake-holders
    - Share the code updates PR to managers and engineers on the project to try to get as many reviews as possible to make many people aware of the incoming changes.
    - Share the proposal with the community at least a week in advance (unless it is a critical bug fix)

>         - In the #cadence channel in [the Flow discord server](https://discord.com/invite/J6fFnh2xx6).

Reviewer 2: I think it is internal thing

        - They should regularly re-evaluate the code of the project to see if it needs to be updated to conform to standards and new versions of Cadence.
        - The best projects should be active in the development of the protocol and language.
    - The owner should also understand how to sign transactions with the CLI to upgrade the smart contract, run admin transactions, deploy new contracts, etc. 
- The owner should identify a secondary owner who doesn’t hold any direct responsibility, but still has a clear understanding of the code and requirements so they can give good feedback, perform effective reviews, and make changes where needed. In case the owner is not available or leaves the project, this person can also take over easily so there is never a time when there is nobody who understands the smart contracts well.
- If there isn’t already an open source repo, the owner should create a public GitHub repo from [the open source template](https://github.com/onflow/open-source-template) and make sure all of this is set up with some initial documentation for what the repo is for before any code is written.

> - The owner should create a design document that lays out the intended high level design and architecture of the smart contract and some basic user stories, as well as any questions that still need to be answered about it.

Reviewer 4: Probably we should provide some examples about this point if we really want people to do it, but also probably those examples belong outside this document?

Author: we could link to an example, like your switchboard document or something like that. Are you ok with that?

Reviewer 4: Yeah absolutely! Maybe we can take a look at it before using it as an example since I did it literally on my second week at dapper, but I'll be honoured!

    - Diagrams should be made where applicable describing state machines, user flows, etc
    - This document should be shared in an issue in the open source repo where the contracts or features are being developed.

> - If the owner has to move to another team, a new owner on the project’s team should be identified and ramped up immediately so that there is always an owner who is intimately involved with the project and is aware of all the details.

Reviewer 4: Maybe this is slightly redundant with line 28?

Author: yeah, I'll delete this

- Keys for the contract and/or admin accounts should be stored in a secure key store such as google KMS or something similar, and the owner should have access to these along with the secondary owner and some other engineering manager. Keys should never be in any file in the public repo.

> - Project owners need to always keep [composability and extensibility](https://www.notion.so/Smart-Contract-Composability-be544f21a2e84596affad73952b21d56) in mind while designing, developing, and documenting their projects.

Reviewer 4: I guess this link is internal? Should we make a public version of this too?

Author: yes, that is internal. I'll covert that to a doc here too

- Cadence best practices need to be kept in mind:
    - [https://developers.flow.com/cadence/design-pattern](https://developers.flow.com/cadence/design-patterns)s
    - [https://developers.flow.com/cadence/anti-patterns](https://developers.flow.com/cadence/anti-patterns)
    - [https://developers.flow.com/cadence/security-best-practices](https://developers.flow.com/cadence/security-best-practices)

## **Development Process**

> - The same person who writes the code must also write the tests.

Reviewer 4: Maybe also redundant with line 21?

Author: nah, I think it is good to be clear here

    - They have the clearest understanding of the code paths and edge cases.
- Development process should be iterative, if possible.
    - Develop MVP first, get reviews, and test thoroughly, then add additional features with tests.
    - Makes the review process easier.
- Comments and field/function descriptions need to be written at the same time (or even before) the code is written
    - Helps the developer and reviewers understand the work-in-progress code better, as well as the intentions of the design (for testing and reviewing)
- Functions should be commented with a
    - Description

>     - Parameter descriptions (unless it is obvious)

Reviewer 4: I like to comment parameters and returns even if they are obvious so the cadence doc tool makes it pretty when we actually use to include auto generated docs on the projects.

Author: thats a good point. I'll remove the part in parentheses

    - Return value descriptions (unless it is obvious)

> - Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) because there is a cadence docs generating tool that picks up three slash comments to auto-generate docs. Tool readme: [https://github.com/onflow/cadence/tree/master/tools/docgen](https://github.com/onflow/cadence/tree/master/tools/docgen)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events, and functions should use `///` (three slashes) to be recognised by the [Cadence Documentation Generator](https://github.com/onflow/cadence-tools/tree/master/docgen)
```
Please check my grammar here!!

- When looking for reviews, these requirements need to be followed (contracts and features that don’t have these are not ready for review and any reviewers should ask for them before doing the review):
    - Contract needs to be commented as described above
    - Include a high-level description of the contract or change in comments at the top of the file or function
    - Make a PR and make sure the PR description includes a summary of the contract, changes, and anything important to be aware of.

### **Testing**

- Tests should be **mandatory**, not optional, even if the contract is copied from somewhere else.
- There should be thorough emulator unit tests in the public repo.
- Every time there is a new Cadence version or emulator version, the dependencies of the repo should be updated to make sure the tests are all still passing.
- Tests should avoid being monolithic; Individual test cases should be set up for each part of the contract to test them in isolation.
    - There are some exceptions, like contracts that have to run through a state machine to test different cases.
- Positive and negative cases need to be tested.

### **Documentation**

- Detailed README.md

>     - Include explanations of Cadence and Flow and links to their docs

Reviewer 4: We want every project to explain what is Cadence?

Author: probably not. I'll remove that

Therefore, there should be clear tutorials for how to use and interact with the smart contracts so external developers can get up to speed as quickly as possible.

These can potentially be included in the README.md, but depending on the importance of the project, they could be their own posts or web pages.

Examples for tutorials:
- How to deploy and set up the contracts on the emulator and run automated tests.
- How to run common transactions.
- How to run scripts to access contract state on various networks.
- How to mint on testnet if applicable.

## **Deployment and Upgrade Process**

Smart contract upgrades are a big deal and need to be treated as such. It is important to have many eyes on the upgrades and more communication with the project team and community.

### Expectations for deployments to testnet or mainnet

- Communicate to all stake-holders
    - Share the code updates PR to managers and engineers on the project to try to get as many reviews as possible to make many people aware of the incoming changes.
    - Share the proposal with the community at least a week in advance (unless it is a critical bug fix)

>         - In the #cadence channel in discord

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - In the #cadence channel in the Flow's discord server.
```
Link to the discord server?

process for the smart contracts before much code is written so that the team
can set themselves up for success.

Here are some recommendations for how projects can organize the foundations of their projects.

### Projects should ensure that there is strong technical leadership for ther smart contracts

Developing a dapp requires a clear vision for the role of the smart contract and how it's integrated.
Security vulnerabilities may arise from bugs directly in smart contract code (and elsewhere in the system).
Asynchronous interaction vectors may lead to forms of malicious abuse,
DOS etc in a contract triggering explosive gas costs for the developer or other problems.

We recommend that engineers leading a project and deploying to mainnet have an understanding
of software and security engineering fundamentals and have been thorough
in their Cadence skills development. More in-depth resources for learning Cadence
are available [here](https://developers.flow.com/cadence).

The technical leader should be someone who understands Cadence well and has written Cadence smart contracts
before. Production-level smart contracts are not the place for beginners to get their start.

> It should be this person’s responsibility to lead design discussions

Reviewer 5: Do we want to provide more guidance on what should be covered in the design documents? Like, motivation, actual design, pros and cons of different possible designs, potential issues and how they will be mitigated, scalability, rollout process, monitoring during rollout and after etc.

Author: I describe that later in the document, but I don't want to get too prescriptive because this is mostly just meant as recommendations. I added some clarification though

## Context

Smart Contracts are the bedrock piece of security for many important parts
of the Flow blockchain, as well as for any project that is deployed to a blockchain.

They are also the most visible technical parts of any project,
since users will be querying them for data, building other smart contracts that interact with them,
and using them as learning materials and templates for future projects.
Furthermore, when deployed they are publicly available code on the blockchain
and often also in public Github repos.

> Therefore, the process around designing, building, testing, documenting,
> and managing these projects needs to reflect the critical importance they hold in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of designing, building, testing, documenting, and managing 
Web3 projects differs from traditional software engineering due to the open availability of 
smart contracts and the necessary security engineering mindset that goes along with them.
```

Author: I basically say the same thing in the previous paragraph, so I'm not going to include this change

> Each project has a responsibility to manage their project clearly and professionally.

Reviewer: To disambiguate what managing a project 'clearly and professionally' may mean to people, will suggest a version which I think might resonate more.

> Each project has a responsibility to manage their project clearly and professionally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every software project strikes a balance between effort spent on product/feature delivery vs the many other demands of the SDLC, whether testing, technical debt, automation, refactoring, or documentation etc. Building in Web3 we face the same trade-offs, but in a higher risk and consequence environment than what is typical for most software. A mismanaged or untested smart contract may result in **significant** financial losses as a result of vulnerabilities which were overlooked then exploited. We highly recommend builders adopt these best practices to help mitigate these risks .
```

Author: Good suggestion! I'll add it

> If they do so, they will be able to build better smart contracts, avoid potential bugs,
> support user and third-party adoption of their projects, and increase their chances of success
> by being a model for good software design. Additionally, the more projects that adopt
> good software design and management standards normalizes this behavior,
> encouraging other projects in the ecosystem to do the same which creates a healthier
> and more vibrant community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensuring appropriate levels of testing results in better smart contracts which have
pro-actively modeled threats and engineered against them. Ensuring appropriate levels 
of standards adoption ([FungibleToken](https://github.com/onflow/flow-ft), [NFT Catalog](https://www.flow-nft-catalog.com/), [NFT StoreFront](https://github.com/onflow/nft-storefront), etc) by dapp 
builders amplifies the network effects for all in the ecosystem. NFTs in one dapp can be 
readily consumed by other dapps through on-chain events with no new integration 
required. With your help and participation we can further accelerate healthy and vibrant 
network effects across the Flow ecosystem!
```

Author: I'll add this one! Good mentions

Some of these suggestions might seem somewhat unnecessary,
but it is important to model what a project can do to manage its smart contracts the best

> so that hopefully all of the projects follow suit.

Reviewer: I don't think that builders are motivated by having 'a model project that others want to copy', so maybe this para could be dropped?

Author: That probably isn't the main motivation, but it definitely is part of it

It will also make all the Flow smart contracts that much safer and easier to use.

> 

Reviewer: Could drop this

Author: agreed

### Implementing These Practices

This document serves as mostly an outline of best practices the projects should follow.
As with all best practices, teams will choose which applies to them and their work process,
however, we recommend that teams explicitly define a minimum acceptable set of standards
for themselves along with the mechanisms to ensure they are being observed.

Some teams may also have their own set of development standards that acheive a similar goal
to these. These recommendations are not meant to be the only paths to success,
so if a team disagrees with some of these and wants to do things their own way,
they are welcome to pursue that. This document just shows some generic suggestions
for teams who might not know how they want to manage their project.

## Design Process

Smart contracts usually manage a lot of value, have many users, and are difficult to upgrade
for a variety of reasons. Therefore, it is important to have a clearly defined design
process for the smart contracts before much code is written so that the team
can set themselves up for success.

Here are some recommendations for how projects can organize the foundations of their projects.

> ### Projects should have a single person ultimately responsible for the smart contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Ensure technical leadership for your project
```

This person should be someone who understands Cadence well and has written Cadence smart contracts

> before. Production-level smart contracts are not the place for beginners to get their start.

Reviewer: This is a pretty high bar; for many they will have nobody else to collaborate with who knows Cadence and will themselves be a journeyman

Author: These aren't requirements. They are just suggestions for how to make your project the most successful

> before. Production-level smart contracts are not the place for beginners to get their start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learning new languages and paradigms takes time, with Cadence being no exception. While it may take time to more deeply develop one's decentralized engineering skillset, experienced engineers can also draw from related experiences in distributed systems, security and other engineering. Developing a dapp requires a clear vision for the role of the smart contract and how it's integrated. Security vulnerabilities may arise from bugs directly in smart contract code (and elsewhere in the system). Asynchronous interaction vectors may lead to forms of malicious abuse, DOS etc in a contract triggering explosive gas costs for the developer (what else?). We recommend that engineers deploying to mainnet have an understanding of software and security engineering fundamentals and have been thorough in their Cadence skills development. More in-depth resources for learning Cadence are available [here](url).
```

> It should be this person’s responsibility to lead design discussions
> with product managers and the community, write most of the code and tests,
> solicit reviews, make requested changes and make sure the project gets completed in a timely manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Designing smart contracts takes time and is complex because of the immutability of blockchains and the requirement to address all possible risks to value. Technical leaders should leverage design discussions internally or in the [open community](url) to work with stakeholders - product, business, creators, artists - to ensure the appropriate design of a contract serving the required use cases. Further reviews of smart contract designs and code across technical stakeholders may also help improve the security and safety of contracts. 
```

> The owner should also understand how to sign transactions with the CLI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Technical leaders should also understand how to sign transactions with the CLI
```

> to upgrade the smart contract, run admin transactions, deploy new contracts, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to deploy new contracts or update existing ones, run admin transactions, and troubleshoot contracts etc.
```

If something goes wrong or needs to be handled with a transaction, it is important that the owner

> know how to run transaction and scripts safely to address the issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When developing on blockchains if a programmatic error is made in relation to a movement of real value, there may be limited time and/or programmatic means to recover from that, depending on the nature of the issue. Having the skills to troubleshoot, diagnose and possibly recover from such a scenario is a high bar to attain. In cases when recovery is possible, it would likely require the crafting of one-off transactions and scripts to, hopefully, restore the prior asset state. All that being said, other on chain activity might mean that the asset becomes unrecoverable before steps to mitigate can be attempted. Technical leaders may want to develop operational response practices as needed.
```

The owner should identify a secondary owner who doesn’t hold any direct responsibility,
but still has a clear understanding of the code and requirements so they can give good feedback,
perform effective reviews, and make changes where needed.
In case the owner is not available or leaves the project,
this person can also take over easily so there is never a time

> when there is nobody who understands the smart contracts well.

Reviewer: I would drop this or make it super simple and focused on succession and bus-factor, rather than 'secondary owner' formalized concept

> ### Projects should maintain a well-organized open source Repo for their smart contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Build in the open! Your contracts will be public and others may build on your project ecosystem
```

> If there isn’t already an open source repo, the owner should create a public GitHub repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As projects like NBA Topshot have shown, when a blockchain product becomes successful others can and do to build on top of what you are doing. Whether that is analytics, tools, or other value adds that could help grow your project ecosystem, composability is key and that depends on open source development. If there isn’t already an open source repo, builders should consider creating one 
```

from [the Flow open source template](https://github.com/onflow/open-source-template)
and make sure all of this is set up with some initial documentation for what the repo is for
before any code is written. External developers and users should have an easily accessible home page
to go to to understand any given project.

The repo should also have some sort of high-level design document that lays out
the intended design and architecture of the smart contract and some basic user stories,
as well as any questions that still need to be answered about it.
    - Where applicable, diagrams should be made describing state machines, user flows, etc.
    - This document should be shared in an issue in the open source repo
    where the contracts or features are being developed,

>     then later moved to the README or another important docs page.

Reviewer: I would add an additional section below this

Author: What kind of section?

Reviewer: It's the part about "A high level design is a key opportunity to model threats and.... etc" which looks like it's been resolved

>     then later moved to the README or another important docs page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    then later moved to the README or another important docs page.
    
A high level design is a key opportunity to model threats and understand the risks of the system. The process of collaborating and reviewing designs together helps ensure that more edge-cases are captured and addressed. It's also a lot less effort to iterate on a design than on hundreds of lines of Cadence.    
```

## Development Process Recommendations

### The Development process should be iterative, if possible

The project should develop an MVP first, get reviews, and test thoroughly,
then add additional features with tests. This ensures that the core features are designed
thoughtfully and makes the review process easier because they can focus on each feature
one at a time instead of being overwhelmed by a huge block of code.

> ### Comments and field/function descriptions should be standardized and written early

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Comments and descriptions are essential!
```

> Comments should be written at the same time (or even before) the code is written.
> This helps the developer and reviewers understand the work-in-progress code better,
> as well as the intentions of the design (for testing and reviewing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our experience writing many Cadence smart contracts has taught us how important documentation 
is. It especially matters what is documented and for whom, and in that way we are no different from 
any software language. The Why is super important, if for example something - an event - that 
happens in one contract leads to outcomes in a different contract. The What helps give context, 
the reason for the code turning out the way it is. The How, you don't document - you've written 
the code. Comments should be directed to those who will follow after you in changing the code. 

Comments should be written at the same time (or sometimes even before) the code is written.
This helps the developer and reviewers understand the work-in-progress code better, as well 
as the intentions of the design (for testing and reviewing).
```

Functions should be commented with a
    - Description
    - Parameter descriptions
    - Return value descriptions

Top Level comments and comments for types, fields, events,
and functions should use `///` (three slashes) to be recognised by the
[Cadence Documentation Generator](https://github.com/onflow/cadence-tools/tree/master/docgen).
Regular comments within functions should only use two slashes (`//`)

## Testing Recommendations

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Summarized below is a list of testing related recommendations which are noteworthy to mention for a typical smart contract project. For additional details on testing in Cadence please review our main [documentation site](url).
```

The same person who writes the code should also write the tests.
They have the clearest understanding of the code paths and edge cases.

Tests should be **mandatory**, not optional, even if the contract is copied from somewhere else.

> There should be thorough emulator unit tests in the public repo.

Reviewer: Can we link to an example of what they should aspire to?

Every time there is a new Cadence version or emulator version,
the dependencies of the repo should be updated to make sure the tests are all still passing.

> Tests should avoid being monolithic;

Reviewer: Would be good to show what non-monolithic tests are modeled as

Individual test cases should be set up for each part of the contract to test them in isolation. 
There are some exceptions, like contracts that have to run through a state machine

> to test different cases. Positive and negative cases need to be tested.

Reviewer: Example?

Integration tests should also be written to ensure that your app and/or backend can interact

> properly with the smart contracts.

Reviewer: Example?

Author: I don't know of an example here, because all the backends I know about are in private repos.

## Managing Project Keys and Deployments

Smart contract keys and deployments are very important and need to be treated as such.

### Private Keys should be stored securely

Private Keys for the contract and/or admin accounts should not be kept in plain text format anywhere.
Projects should determine a secure solution that works best for them to store their private keys.

> We recommend storing them in a secure key store such as google KMS or something similar.

Reviewer: I think we already have security / key management best practices? @vishalchangrani @srinjoyc thoughts on what this could link to?

> ### Deployments to Testnet or Mainnet should be handled transparently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Support your community through transparency around testnet and mainnet deployments
```

When deploying or upgrading a contract, it is important to have many eyes on the upgrades
and clear communication with the project team and community. This builds trust with the community,
allows the opportunity to catch issues with upgrades before they happen, and provides more time

> and context for community members to react to new features and changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As projects become more successful communities around them grow and in a trustless ecosystem that also means more of others building on your contracts. Before deploying or upgrading a contract, it is important to maintain clear community communications with sufficient notice, since changes will always bring added risk. Giving community members time to review and address issues with upgrades before they happen builds trust and confidence in projects.
```

Here are a few suggestions for how to manage a deployment or upgrade.

- Communicate to all stake-holders well in advance
    - Share the proposal with the community at least a week in advance (unless it is a critical bug fix)
        - Examples of places to share are your project's chat, forum, blog, email list, etc.
        - This will allow the community and other stakeholders to have plenty of time
        to view the upcoming changes and provide feedback if neccessary.
    - Share the time of the deployment and the deployment transaction with branch/commit hash information to ensure the transaction itself is correct.
    - Coordinate deployment with stakeholders to make sure it is done correctly and on time.

> ## Responsibilities to the Community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Composability is any project's most potent unlock

Web3 brings tremendous possibilities for engineering applications with composability in mind, with Cadence and Flow offering unique features to achieve this. Whether others want to mine data available through your contracts, or otherwise transact directly through them, their public nature means that any other party may build on your own contract. Providing thoughtfully designed, easy to use contract interfaces will be key to the success of projects developing their own ecosystem aspects.

Author: This section is about more than just composability, so I won't change the title, but I'll add some of this paragraph

> ### Project should have thorough Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Projects should have thorough documentation
```

> Each project should have a Detailed README.md with these sections:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each project should have a detailed README.md:
```

    - Explanation of the project itself with links to the app
    - Addresses on various networks
    - High-level technical description of the contracts with emphasis on important types and functionality
    - Architecture diagram (if applicable)

>     - Include links to tutorials if they are external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Include links to tutorials if they are external
    - Flow smart contract standards that a project implements
```

> Additionally, each contract, transaction, and script should have high-level descriptions
> at the top of their files. This way, anyone in the community can easily 
> come in and understand what each one is doing without having to parse confusing code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Encouraging adoption of project contracts to the broader ecosystem raises the bar around code providing clear high-level descriptions, with detailed and useful comments within contracts, transactions, and scripts. The more that a project can be understood, that it adheres to standards, and can be built upon with ease, the more likely others will build against it in turn. 
```

> ### Projects should Engage with and respond to their own Community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Project communities require ongoing nurturing and support
```

Once a contract is deployed, the work doesn’t stop there. As the developer of a public project on a public blockchain, the owners have an obligation to be helpful and responsive to the community so that they can encourage composability and third party interactions.

- Keep issues open in the repo.
- The owner should turn on email notifications for new issue creation in the repo.
- Respond to issues quickly and clean up unimportant ones.

> - Maybe write a blog post about some part of the contracts every once in a while.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consider blog posts to share more details on upcoming changes.
```

> ### Projects should contribute to the greater Flow and Cadence Community

Reviewer: I feel like this isn't fair to expect from all builders. We could be less prescriptive

> ### Projects should contribute to the greater Flow and Cadence Community

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Key contributors to the Flow and Cadence Community
```

Author: This doesn't follow the same pattern as all the other section headers (Projects should X), so I'm going to leave it as is

Reviewer: Tonally i think that saying should is prescriptive especially as it concerns community or Flow contributions. I would argue that it's really not a fair expectation to try to mandate it of teams. They are busy building their products and trying to build successful apps. Yes there will be some that stand out and end up contributing but a vast majority of teams will never give anything back. That's why I don't like this heading and why i think it should change

> Responsible project maintainers should contribute to discussions
> about important proposals (new cadence features, standard smart contracts, metadata, etc)
> and generally be aware about evolving best practices and anti-pattern understandings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We welcome builders who have an above average level of interest in contributing and/or participating in the ecosystem. Whether your interest is towards important proposals (new Cadence features, standard smart contracts, metadata, new verticals, etc) or otherwise about evolving best practices and patterns, we invite all comers to join and contribute. 
```

> Projects who contribute to these discussions are able to influence them to ensure
> that the language/protocol changes are favorable to them
> and the rest of the app developers in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flow has a vibrant and growing community of contributors that are not Dapper employees. Through our mutual collaboration we've had numerous community Flow Improvement Proposals ([FLIP](https://github.com/onflow/flow/tree/master/flips)s) shipped and numerous Dapper proposed FLIPs considerably influenced by the community. If you have an interest in a particular improvement for Flow or Cadence we host open meetings which you are welcome to join (announced on discord) and can participate anytime on any of the FLIPs [already proposed](https://github.com/onflow/flow/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+label%3AFLIP).
```

> It also helps the owner to promote the project and themselves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There may also be opportunities for projects to benefit from deeper technical feedback or promotion.
```

Owners should also regularly re-evaluate the code of their project to see if it needs to be updated 
to conform to new standards and new versions of Cadence.
This will help them identify potential problems with their smart contracts ahead of time

> and be able to stay on the cutting edge of smart contract development.

Reviewer: Not sure that this is especially relevant in this section, feels out of place here.
